Q1: Who was honoured with the Best Actor Award at the Filmfare Awards 2023 for the film - Badhai Do?
ANS: Rajkumar Rao

Q2: Who was honoured with the Best Actress Award at the Filmfare Awards 2023 for the film - Gangubai Kathiawadi?
ANS: Alia Bhatt

Q3: Who was honoured with the Best Director Award at the Filmfare Awards 2023 for the film - Gangubai Kathiawadi?
ANS: Sanjay Leela Bhansali

Q4: Which film was awarded the Best Film Award at the Filmfare Awards 2023?
ANS: Gangubai Kathiawadi

Q5: The Union Cabinet has approved the establishment of how many new Nursing Colleges in the country in co-location with the existing medical colleges established since 2014?
ANS: 157

Q6: Which rescue operation has been launched by the Government of India to evacuate Indians from trouble-torn Sudan?
ANS: Operation Kaveri

Q7: Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated how many 100W FM transmitters across the country to boost radio connectivity?
ANS: 91

Q8: Who has recently been elected the President of the Cycling Federation of India?
ANS: Pankaj Singh

Q9: How many medical parks will be set up under the National Medical Device Policy?
ANS: 4 (HP, UP, TN, and MP)

Q10: With which country did India announce making the 'Net Zero' Innovation Virtual Center?
ANS: United Kingdom (UK)

Q11: Name the former Punjab Chief Minister and veteran Akali Dal leader who passed away on April 25, 2023.
ANS: Parkash Singh Badal

Q12: Which company has recently got the status of Navratna Central Public Sector Enterprise?
ANS: Rail Vikas Nigam Limited

Q13: India's first water metro service was inaugurated in which State?
ANS: Kerala

Q14: Which country has recently honoured Ratan Tata with its highest civilian honour?
ANS: Australia

Q15: Who took over as the Secretary of the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT)?
ANS: Rajesh Kumar Singh

Q16: The iconic Sydney Cricket Ground unveiled a gate named after which Indian cricketer?
ANS: Sachin Tendulkar

Q17: On which day, National Panchayati Raj Day was observed?
ANS: 24 April

Q18: Who has become the fastest Indian to score 7,000 runs in T20 cricket?
ANS: K L Rahul

Q19: Who has become the first woman Air Force officer to receive the 'Gallantry Award'?
ANS: Deepika Misra

Q20: Which Indian company has recently achieved a market capitalization of Rs 5 lakh crore?
ANS: ITC Limited

Q21: Which State has started the 'One Panchayat One Play Ground' project for reviving the sports culture in the State?
ANS: Kerala

Q22: On which day National Civil Services Day was observed?
ANS: 21 April

Q23: Which State won the National Award for best implementation of 'Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana'?
ANS: Karnataka

Q24: Indian Army has tied up with which university to impart Chinese language training to military personnel?
ANS: Tezpur University, Assam

Q25: How many crore rupees have been sanctioned under the 'National Quantum Mission' for the period 2023-24 to 2030-31?
ANS: 6,000 Crore

Q26: Shelly Singh who has qualified for the Asian Games recently is related to which sports?
ANS: Long Jump

Q27: Name the Indian women's cricket team captain who has become the first woman player to be selected as the Wisden Cricketer of the Year for 2023.
ANS: Harmanpreet Kaur

Q28: How many crores of projects have been approved under the National Mission for Clean Ganga?
ANS: 638 Crore

Q29: Name the Indian batsman who has become the 4th batsman in the world to score 6000 runs in the Indian Premier League (IPL). India's Virat Kohli, Shikhar Dhawan and Australia's David Warner are the other three batsmen to score 6000 runs in the IPL.
ANS: Rohit Sharma

Q30: In which Indian city, Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook has launched the company's first retail store?
ANS: Mumbai

Q31: Which Union Ministry has started a campaign - 'Prosperity through Organization' to empower marginal rural households by bringing all eligible rural women under Self Help Groups (SHGs)?
ANS: Ministry of Rural Development

Q32: In which city the meeting of the G20 Digital Economy Working Group was held?
ANS: Hyderabad

Q33: Which automobile company has launched an online retail sales platform 'Wheels on Web' for the customers of Bengaluru?
ANS: Toyota

Q34: Who has become the first Indian to score a century in IPL 2023?
ANS: Venkatesh Iyer

Q35: In which city will the Asian Champions Trophy hockey tournament be organized?
ANS: Chennai

Q36: Which country has become India's largest trading partner?
ANS: USA

Q37: Which player holds the record for the fastest 100 wickets in IPL history?
ANS: Kagiso Rabada

Q38: The tallest Ambedkar statue in India has been unveiled in which State?
ANS: Telangana

Q39: In which city was the first AIIMS hospital of North-East India inaugurated?
ANS: Guwahati

Q40: India, Japan and France have launched a common platform for financial assistance to which country?
ANS: Sri Lanka

Q41: In which country the Indian High Commission has started its 16th Visa Application Centre?
ANS: Bangladesh

Q42: Which player won India's first gold medal in the Asian Wrestling Championship 2023?
ANS: Aman Sehrawat

Q43: In which city was the first underwater metro train trial run in India?
ANS: Kolkata

Q44: How many medals India won in the Women's Asian Wrestling Championship? India finished fourth in the points table.
ANS: 7

Q45: Which company owned by the Government of India has been given the status of Miniratna Category-I?
ANS: Solar Energy Corporation of India

Q46: India's first 3D-printed post office is being built in which city?
ANS: Bengaluru

Q47: According to the ADR report, who is the Chief Minister with the most assets in the country?
ANS: Jagan Mohan Reddy

Q48: Who has been appointed as the next Chief Justice of Tripura High Court recently?
ANS: Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh

Q49: The Government of which State has recently added the transgender community to the Other Backward Classes (OBC) list of the State?
ANS: Madhya Pradesh

Q50: What is the name given to India's first semi-high-speed regional rail service?
ANS: RAPIDX

Q51: Who has been appointed as the Chief Investment Officer by LIC?
ANS: Ratnakar Patnaik

Q52: The Government of which State has passed a bill to ban online gambling?
ANS: Tamil Nadu

Q53: Name the Union Minister of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs who recently released the first edition of the Dogri version of the Constitution.
ANS: Kiren Rijiju

Q54: Which political party has got the status of National Party recently by the Election Commission of India?
ANS: Aam Aadmi Party

Q55: Who has become the fastest Indian to take 100 wickets in IPL?
ANS: Harshal Patel

Q56: Renowned Indian-American mathematician and statistician who has been awarded the 2023 International Prize in Statistics?
ANS: C R Rao

Q57: Which State has recently declared a public holiday on the birth anniversary of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule?
ANS: Rajasthan

Q58: Jagarnath Mahto, who recently passed away was the Education Minister of which State?
ANS: Jharkhand

Q59: Who has taken over as the President of the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI)?
ANS: Kalikesh Narayan Singh Deo

Q60: Which product of Varanasi has recently been given the GI tag?
ANS: Banarasi Paan and Banarasi Langda Mango

Q61: Which Indian space start-up successfully tested a 3D-printed cryogenic engine?
ANS: Skyroot Aerospace

Q62: Which woman weightlifter, a two-time Commonwealth Games champion, has been banned for 4 years for failing a dope test?
ANS: Sanjita Chanu

Q63: Which state has topped the India Justice Report 2022 among the 18 large and mid-sized states in delivery of justice with populations over one crore? Tamil Nadu has ranked in the second position; Telangana third; and Uttar Pradesh is at rank 18 which is the lowest.
ANS: Karnataka

Q64: Who has been appointed as the new Managing Director by Suzuki Motorcycle India?
ANS: Kenichi Umeda

Q65: Who took over as the 40th President of the FICCI Ladies Organization (FLO)?
ANS: Sudha Shivkumar

Q66: The World Bank has cut India's growth rate for FY2024 from 6.6% to how much?
ANS: 6.3%

Q67: Name the Indian social worker from Maharashtra who was awarded the Maharashtra Bhushan Award 2022 by the Maharashtra Government?
ANS: Appasaheb Dharmadhikari

Q68: Who has become the second-fastest Asian batsman to score 12,000 runs in international cricket?
ANS: Babar Azam (Pakistan)

Q69: Which US state has recognized Diwali as an official state holiday?


ANS: Pennsylvania

Q70: On which day, World Intellectual Property Day was observed?
ANS: 26 April

Q71: Who has been sworn in as the 22nd President of Bangladesh?
ANS: Mohammad Shahabuddin Chuppu

Q72: Who has become the fastest pacer to take 200 wickets in T20 cricket?
ANS: Shaheen Afridi (Pakistan)

Q73: Who launched the world's largest and most powerful rocket 'Starship' which resulted in massive failure during the first test flight?
ANS: SpaceX

Q74: Who founded SpaceX in 2002?
ANS: Elon Musk

Q75: On which day, World Liver Day was observed?
ANS: 19 April

Q76: Which country has recently shut down its last three nuclear reactors?
ANS: Germany

Q77: Who has become the fastest batsman to score 6000 runs in IPL history?
ANS: David Warner

Q78: Which player holds the record for most hat tricks in T20 cricket?
ANS: Rashid Khan

Q79: On which day, World Homeopathy Day was observed?
ANS: 10 April

Q80: Who has topped the annual list of billionaires released by Forbes?
ANS: Bernard Arnault

Q81: Which country has been elected as a member of the Supreme Statistical Commission of the United Nations?
ANS: India

Q82: Which country has been removed from hosting the Men's Under-17 FIFA World Cup?
ANS: Peru

Q83: Which country has become the 31st member of NATO?
ANS: Finland

Q84: What was the theme of the World Immunisation Week observed from 24 April to 30 April 2023?
ANS: The Big Catch-up